hey this is pressure Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
fun problem involving an infinite number
of square roots what is the value of ten
times the square root of everything
that's inside times ten times the square
root of everything that's inside times
ten times the square root of everything
that's inside times ten times the square
root of everything that's inside
repeated infinitely many times if you
can solve this problem you can then
consider the variation or instead of ten
we have an alternation of three and five
another variation is to consider we have
ten under each radical but instead of
just having a square root we have an nth
root this will be for n is equal to
whole number values like two three four
five and so on
finally what would happen instead of one
fixed value of this root we have an
increasing value so we have ten times
the square root of everything that's
inside times ten times the cube root of
everything that's inside times ten times
the fourth root of everything that's
inside times ten times the fifth root of
everything that's inside and so on
repeated infinitely many times I think
abdel hakim from algeria for suggesting
this in fact the problem with
alternating three and five terms
appeared on a math competition for
third-year students in high school which
would be about 16 and 17-year olds can
you figure these out give them a try and
when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution
now before I get to the answer it's very
important that a YouTube channel of my
size and reach mentioned something about
convergence of an infinite product the
infinite product of positive real
numbers converges if and only if the
following infinite sum converges in
other words if we take the term by term
natural logarithm and we add up all of
those terms and that is a convergent
series then we know that the infinite
product also converges so this gives a
connection between the convergence of an
infinite product and the convergence of
infinite sums and most of us have
studied infinite sum convergence in
class so we can apply the basic lessons
now in this video we're gonna be dealing
with things which are infinite sums that
were very familiar with like geometric
series so there's no need to formally
check the exact convergence you're gonna
see why they converge through the
derivation but if you really wanted to
check the details you can go ahead and
check using this formal method so now
let's get to the answers how do we solve
this problem
well we'll solve it by considering the
partial products the first partial
product will be 10 or 10 to the power of
1 the next term will be 10 times the
square root of the previous term so we
have 10 to the power one times 10 to the
power of 1/2 or 10 to the power of 1
plus 1/2 the next term is 10 times the
square root of the previous term so we
get 10 to the power of 1 plus 1/2 plus
1/4 and this pattern continues where the
nth term is equal to 10 times the square
root of the previous term and when you
work it out we end up with the following
pattern we have 10 to a geometric series
we have 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/4 plus so on
plus 1 to the power of 2 to the n so now
how can we figure out the value well the
exponent is a convergent geometric
series and we can use the formula for
the sum of the geometric series to get
that the exponent will be equal to 2 so
all of this is equal to 10 squared or
100 and that's it so now it's a little
more complicated if you have alternating
terms of 3 & 5 let's consider the
partial product
the first partial product will be three
times the square root of five which is
equal to 3 ^ 1 times 5 ^ 1/2 the next
partial product will take 3 times the
square root of everything that's inside
times 5 times the square root of the
previous term and when you work that out
you end up getting 3 to the power of 1
plus 1/4 x 5 to the power of 1/2 plus
1/8 now we can continue this pattern
where the nth term is equal to 3 times
the square root of everything that's
inside of 5 times the square root of the
previous term and when you work it out
we end up with 3 going to the power of 1
plus 1/4 and all these powers of 4 until
we get 1 over 4 to the power of n and we
need to multiply all of this by 5 raised
to the other powers we have 1/2 plus 1/8
and so on where we get 1 over 2 times 4
to the N so now how do we solve for this
value well we have two convergent
geometric series and we can solve for
their values so we end up with 3 to the
power of 4/3
multiplied by 5 to the power of 2/3 now
let's consider if we have the nth root
well this is very much like the square
root problem the first term will be
equal to 10 to the power of 1 then each
subsequent term will equal 10 times the
nth root of the previous term and we can
go ahead and solve for the pattern here
and we end up with the geometric series
where the common ratio is 1 over N so
now we can solve for the value of this
infinite nested product by solving for
the sum of this geometric series and
then we get the answer of 10 to the
power of n all over n minus 1 and notice
if you substitute in n is equal to 2 you
get 10 squared and that exactly matches
what we solved in the very first problem
now what would happen if we have an
increasing n throat this is a little bit
trickier to solve
but let's work it out the first term is
equal to ten to the power of one the
next partial product will be ten times
the square root of ten so we get ten to
the power of one plus one half the third
partial term will be the second term and
then we have the square root of the cube
roots of ten and this works out to be 10
to the power 1 plus 1 over 2 plus 1 over
2 times 3 when you work out this pattern
you end up that the next term or the
caithe term is equal to the previous
term multiplied by this following nested
radical we have the second root the
third earth and all the way to the K
throat of 10 and when you work that out
it ends up being the sum of factorials
like this 10 to the power of 1 plus 1
over 2 factorial plus 1 over 3 factorial
and so on
to 1 over K factorial so now we look at
this exponent and this is another
familiar pattern this is equal to e
minus 1 because E is equal to exactly
this infinite series plus 1 so this all
will be the value of 10 to the power of
e minus 1 did you figure it out thanks
for watching this video these math
videos which can be watched for free on
YouTube inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over 800 million views please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos and you don't need a puzzle or
math topic fresh I mind your decisions
calm if you so choose to support this
channel you can get some merchandise at
teespring you can check out my books
which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support